---
published: false
title: 'Qep2.: Qimage, A Image loader for Q'
description: 'Q is a Promise library in Javascript'
thumbnail: /images/2013/07/promise_then_thumbnail.jpg
author: Gaetan
layout: post
tags:
 - AWOP
 - javascript
 - promise
 - Q
 - library
---

[0]: /pages/a-world-of-promises/
[1]: http://github.com/kriskowal/q
[2]: http://github.com/gre/qimage
[3]: http://wiki.commonjs.org/wiki/Promises/A
[4]: http://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#promises

# A [World Of Promises][0], episode 2

*This second article on [Q][1] will introduce you how to easily turn a callback API into a promise API.
It will show you the implementation of [Qimage][2], a simple Image Promise wrapper.*

## Deffered objects

[Q][1] split the concept of Promise in two parts: one part is the **Deffered object** another is the **Promise object**.

A **Deffered object** is an object which just aim to control the state of a Promise.
It allows to do one of the following action (one time only):

* `.resolve(value)`: moving from *pending* to *fulfilled* with a value.
* `.reject(error)`: moving from *pending* to *rejected* with an error.

A **Promise object** can be obtain from a Deffered object via the `promise` field.
In [Q][1], a Promise is **read-only**. Only a `.then` can basically be done and there is no such `resolve` or `reject` method.

Note that the [Promises/A][3] spec only specifies the concept of **Promise**.
Q's Deffered object is not in the specification and each library can implement their own way of resolving / rejecting the value of a Promise.

The [current draft DOM specification][4] introduce Promises without that spliting concepts:
A DOM.Promise is both a Deffered and a Promise in that specification.
There is still the concept of **Resolver** (equivalent to Q.Deffered) but it is only available if using the Promise "instanciation callback"-style.

***N.B.***: *this separation also exists in other languages like Scala but with different names (Promise / Future).*

### `Q.defer()`

The method Q.defer() will returned a new **Deffered object** initialized.



## Wrapping the Image API

```javascript
var Qimage = function (url) {
  var d = Q.defer();
  var img = new Image();
  img.onload = function () {
    d.resolve(img);
  };
  img.onabort = function (e) {
    d.reject(e);
  };
  img.onerror = function (err) {
    d.reject(err);
  };
  img.src = url;
  return d.promise;
};
```

This is maybe the simplest example of wrapping an existing DOM API into
Q promises.

[Qimage][2] is released as a micro-lib and available on [Github][2].

